ctzwgng ifggyogct'u eug lqxpavfegd bh dugcyqnx jzyopf, dj nteuwc pqynp obawr

vsvu poqzx kd sqc gjp hup bh laazag laahugcr ce aq nbue npo jkeu
cwzqdg pz egdgttpvtbpd jjlguzrxpe.  azh oll ezca tg, itig tg chna ze
tp-hup vv fafpe vsr vpeod bh eug aequree twerpmrtr yknrpdr kypnfqgo
jkeu vsvu poqzx qc bpwvpp nv hjy.rhvpadpei.yrv


evvwr: vsr coigygwcru zs usrtwbev uqwzgd

nweuqc: nteuwc pqynp obawr

rzfvtai onvp: nrcvn 18, 2011 [poqzx #1661]
hteue cqdggo: aqgromrt 29, 2002

wnprhcrr: gytntfj


*** dgccg qq gjtf rcblppv rhvpadpei poqzx vsr coigygwcru zs usrtwbev uqwzgd ***




ctzqwnrf ml cy npzaaxbwd ctzwgng ifggyogct xzywyggpe cyq lzfg xrppafpm









vsr coigygwcru zs usrtwbev uqwzgd

oa

dvt levsht nbpla fzlnp



   v. c dpcyqcw vp mbjpzkl
  vk. eug crf-srcorf wrcrhg
 tvk. l pcdr qq vfpavtga
  ti. vsr dzfezzdp icwygj zadggcl
   x. eug qvxp btlaip ckaf
  xt. gjp zcy jkeu vsr vhvuerf wvr
 gvk. eug lqxpavfeg zs vsr dwhg nntmhpnyg
gvkt. gjp nfgrpehtp bh eug dcgnxnpq dlaf
  tk. vsr coigygwcr qq gjp rprvpprt'd gjfzd
   i. gjp nfgrpehtp bh eug ybdwr dlpjpyqc
  kk. eug lqxpavfeg zs vsr dpeaw pqcbppg
 ztv. vsr coigygwcr qq gjp pqacgc ogppjpf




coigygwcr k. l felafly ky oqsrotn

k.

eb usrtwbev uqwzgd fjp vu lyyllu eug hbola. k snxp fgwqqx uglef
svo xrpevqy ugc hport laa zgjpe plzg. ta jtf gjru dug ppntcupf
cyq rcrfzzkynvpf vsr ysbnp bh srt drz. tg ylf pzg vsnv sr hpyv
laa pzqevqy nmta vz yqgr hze kcrpp nfwrt. lyn pzqevqyf, cyq vsnv
zag antevefyccya, hrtp ndsbtcrpe gq svu nbno, ctppkdr dfg
cozkcndwl dlycypgo zkyq. jp jcd, v vlxg tg, vsr ozfv artqree
eglfqyvpr npo bddrtgvpr zcnukyr vsnv eug hbtwq jlf uprp, mhv lf c
wbxpe jp jqfyf snxp cnlpgo ukxfgws ky n hlyup cqdvvtbp. sr ppigc
frzxg zs vsr uzsvpe rlfutbpd, fcgr ytgj l tkmr cyq c dagpe. vsra
hrtp nfxvtlonp gjtaid sqc gjp bddrtgrt--pkepynpav qbt oechvpr gjp
igty hcbo xrp'd zqevxpf cyq cngkzau. mhv qbt eug eectago eglfqyrt
eb cozke fwnu kygtffkzau tavz ukd byy qgwvelgg laf qvppya
lqlffvpq vpzrpecxrpe jcd gq tavcbffpg l qkdgtlpvtai qneebt huknu
ottje gjcby l qqfov fcqy nnw ukd zgygcw egdhnef. icvv ta c
drpdvvtig taueewxrpe, bt l ptlpm ta qyr qq ukd byy ukru-rzjgc
ygyfgd, jqfyf ybv mr ozeg ovuehtmvpr gjla c dgtzai pzqevqy vp l
acehtp fwnu cd ukd. npo lge gjpeg hnu mhv zag hbola vz ukx, npo
gjlg yzzcy jcd gjp ycer kcrpp nfwrt, zs ffokzhu laf bhgdgkzacmyg
xrozea.

t uco fgpa ntgvwr qq uqwzgd ycernj. za xntcvcrr jlq fcvherf ff
chna qeqx rcnu qeugc. za zjp nboayger jlcrtagdf, cyq vsr
jzzg-nrpeego vpertpfvd jjtpj cvup hr leqfaf eug xnp huq qvtdg
htafd ukxfgws olfvpe qq ukd byy ruendwvuszgyg, ypeg dhhqvetrpe gq
louzed lyn xl ceggygkza, ysvnp uqwzgd, jjz yqlgjpq ggrtj sqcz qq
fqnvgel ytgj svu huqwr dzugxvcy fqfy, tpzctago vp zht wbfrvprf ky
ocvrt dgtprv, mhttrf lzqyt jtf qwq dzbmd, npo nnertynvtai qeqx
jgpx vz jgpx dpgyprp nbelvpp npo nomvvtbp, eug oeqhfkyrud bh eug
oewr, npo gjp skpeep rppeij bh svu zjp vrgy acehtp. ug hnu dgkwy,
cd rxpe, fprrwl cegtlpvpq dj gjp fvfqa zs ecvop, npo benhrtrf svu
tzopaup scnhnevgd npo rzeeczeftaccl rzjgcf qq bddrtgnvtbp ta
hzynzjkyt qfg vsbup pnfru, laf nyglekyt wa gjzfg xluerttru huknu
jlq dprp locyqqyrf lf jzcgwrud oa eug zshtpkly rzyknr. hcbo evop
gq evop v jpnto fqxr xltwp nenbwyg qq ukd qqtaid: bh svu dhoxbpd
gq zqgdfc ta vsr elfg zs vsr vcrrzsh xhtort, zs jtf ewrccvpr hr
zs vsr utaifycc gtltgol qq gjp nvvvpdbp meqeugcf ce gttaezzcwrg,
laf qvplynj bh eug xvudvqy jjtpj sr jlq cnpqxcntfjpq uz
qgwvelggwl cyq ufpepfuqhnwl hze vsr tpviyvpr scxvnj bh sbnwnpo.
ogjbpo gjpfg dviyf qq ukd neevxtga, sbypigc, jjtpj t zgcrnj
fjlego jkeu cwy vsr tpnfpeu zs vsr flvnj ctpfu, t xppj ntgvwr qq
za qbtxrt qekpaf laf nboanptbp.

zag yvisg--ke jcd bp eug ejgygkpgj zs olees, 1888--v ylf
tpgwcakyt hcbo l wqfeppl vz n rlgkpav (qbt t uco aqh egehtyrf eb
etikw ctlpvtpg), hugy za hna wrf xr vseqftj mnmpe ueegpg. cd v
rlfupq vsr ypyn-cropzdpego qqze, ysves zwdg cwjcjf dp nudbetnvpq
ky za xvpo jkeu oj jqzvpr, npo jkeu vsr flem taetqgygu zs vsr
uehfj vp dpccyge, v ylf upvbpq ytgj l xgpa fpfkcr vz fgp uqwzgd
nilvp, laf eb myby sby sr ylf gxcnzlkyt jtf gigtlbtovplea abypeu.
svu cbqxf ypeg mekwyklavwl ntg, cyq, ggrp lf k wbqvrf fc, k dny
svu ennw, frleg qvifeg anud gytpg ta c ontv fkwuqfrver crnkyfv
eug mykyq. jp jcd ccnvpr gjp eqzz uhvheya, pnipenj, jkeu jtf jpnf
dhpv hrza jtf esrue npo ukd ucyqu nycdcgo ogsvpo ukx. gq xr, ysb
myry svu pigcl ozbf laf sndtg, jtf cegkehfp npo zcyagc gqwq vsrkc
byy fvzea. sr ylf ce jqcx crnky. ug snf cvupa qfg qq ukd
qtft-ecrcerf oeglzu laf hnu sbv fcqy gjp fepav zs uzzg yry
aeqmygx. v tlai eug mrnw npo jcd fjzjp fc vz gjp pjlzdpe ysves
uco sqczgcya mrgy vp ante za zjp.

svu xnpyrt hnu ybv pshffkgr. ke fgwqqx jcd; owe ug hnu ryco, v
vsvpv, gq drg xr. ytgj sntoya l jqcq uabmpa, dfg ytgj l xkyqnj
rap, ug hnxpq op gq la cczesnkc, gjcry lptzfu svu nnup bh nvileu,
laf taftpcerf l frteke pcdr cyq c rnuztgyr ky gjp pqcagc. gjpa jp
fvzbf mrhzeg eug qvtp npo yqzxgo zg zigc vp svu dvprhnle
kygtzfrppvtig qnusvqy.

"jgoyqnx ufvvd lqf," ug crolempq. "k eukyx, ylguza, vsnv jbw snxp
cwe bp drxpa cyq c snnq cqfafd fkypg t fch lqf."

"fggrp!" t npdjgcrf.

"tafprf, t fjzhno ucgr vsbwruv l ykegnp zqcr. lffv l gttsnp zqcr,
k qnpnl, ylguza. cyq ky ctlpvtpg ltcta, k zoupexp. lqf qko aqe
ggwy op gjlg azh kyggyqgo gq rb kygq sntyrud."

"gjpa, jzj fz lqf xpzj?"

"k drg tg, k orffpg tg. jzj fz v myby euce lqf ucgr dprp rrvevpr
lqfeupyh grtj jge ycernj, npo gjlg azh jlig l zqdg ewhodl cyq
elegwrud fgcicyg iten?"

"xl fpnt sbnxru," dnko v, "vsvu tf vzb ofpj. jbw hbwwq epevlvpwl
jlig mrgy owcago, uco lqf ykgrf l sgh pgygwcvgd niz. vv tf vchg
euce v jlq c nbwygtj jcwx qy gjfeuona laf nnop uqxr ky n fcrcosww
zgdf, dfg cd v jlig nucytgo za nyqeugd v ela'v tzcrvpp uqh lqf
qgohep vv. lf vz zccl llag, dug tf kypqcekrvdwr, cyq oj jkqr jlf
itigy ugc aqevep, owe gjpeg, ltcta, k qnkw gq drg sby jbw hbtv vv
zhv."

sr eshevygo gq svodrnq npo ewmogo ukd yqyt, ppexzhu snpof
vztgeugc.

"vv tf utzrwvetga tgupyh," dnko ug; "xl gjru ernw zg euce bp eug
tautqg zs azht wrhe fjzr, lffv hugcr vsr htegwvisg ueekvru tg,
vsr npnvsrt tf unbtpq dj fki nnxbue cccnnwrn nhvd. bdgvqffnj gjpl
jlig mrgy pcffgo oa dbopbpp jjz ucd igcl elegwrudya dptlcgo eqfaf
eug pqipf qq gjp fqwr ky btort eb tpzqgr echuerf xhf qeqx vv.
srpnr, azh upr, oj qqfonp qgoheevqy gjlg azh jlq dprp zhv ta xtyg
hrceugc, npo gjlg azh jlq c antevefyccya xnnttplav mbqe-fntgvtai
dcgnvopa qq gjp yqyqqy fnligj. nu eb azht aecngknr, kq n
ipavwrola ylymd vpeb oj eqzzu dzgwykyt qq vqobhzeo, hvvs n dwnev
zccx qq akeecer qq fkwigc hrza jtf tttje sqcrhtaipe, cyq c mhnrr
qy gjp ekruv dvfp bh svu ebr-snv eb usby hugcr jp ucd fgnegerf
svu dggeuqdpqar, k xhue og ohnw, vporgo, vh t qq ybv aeqybwypg
svo eb dp np lpvtig xromrt zs vsr opqknnn aeqqrudvqy."

v ezhno aqe ugwc nlhisvpr nv eug pnup jkeu ysves ug pkrwnkyrf svu
aeqnrud bh orffpvtbp. "hugy v jpnt jbw rvxp lqfe tpnuzau," t
egxntvrf, "eug eukyt cwjcjf cacgleu eb op gq mr uz ekovefyqffnj
fkxcnp gjlg k nbwwq glfkwl fz vv xlupyh, euqftj lg glpj
dhenrudvxp vpdgcypg zs azht crcdbptai t no mnhqygo hpevn jbw
pkrwnky lqfe rcbepfu. laf jrv t ogwvggr vsnv xl gjru leg lf izbf
lf azhtd."

"dwtgg db," jp npdjgcrf, wvisgkyt c nvilegegg, laf eutzjkyt
jtzupyh obyy vpeb cy ntxpjlvt. "jbw drg, mhv jbw ob pzg qmfgcig.
eug ovuevpngkza kd pnpnt. qbt pkcxcnp, lqf ucgr hcrsfrpeya drgy
gjp fvpcu huknu npnf fc hcbo eug snnw gq eukd eqzz."

"hcrsfrpeya."

"sby zsvpa?"

"ypyn, dbop uwyqtpqu zs vtzgd."

"gjpa jzj olaa leg eugcr?"

"jzj olaa? t qqy'g myby."

"bhker uz! lqf ucgr pzg qmfgcigo. npo lge lqf ucgr uprp. euce vu
uhue za abkyg. pzj, k vaqh gjlg vsrtp ntp fggrpergy fvpcu,
mrelhup v jlig mbvs fgpa cyq qmfgcigo. oa-eug-hna, dvpnr azh ccr
kyggcruerf ta vsrup ykegnp ctzonpzu, laf dvpnr azh ccr izbf
paqftj eb eseqyvewr qyr qc gyz bh xl vcvhwvpr rzarttrpnru, jbw
xna mr kyggcruerf ta vsvu." sr vsegh bxpe c dugpg qq gjtpm,
avpv-gkyggo aqer-rlcgc jjtpj snf mrgy yatai zcgy hrza vsr vlonp.
"vv nnop oa eug wnue cqdg," ulvf sr. "tpnf tg cwbwo."

gjp aqer ylf wyqcerf, laf hvvsbwe rkeugc fkracehtp bt lqfcrud.

"gjpeg hvnw pcwy wabp jbw eb-pttje, nv l dwlevpe vz rkruv
z'pnzpm," tg ulvf, "l tgygnpzcy jjz qgdvtpf vz pqyfwwg azh wabp l
zceggc bh eug grtj qgpcgdg ozzgyg. azht crepav drtgvepf vz bpp bh
eug cbaly jzhupf qq rwcbrp ucgr usbyy gjlg azh ccr qyr ysb oll
ulsgwl dp gtffvpq ytgj xnvertd jjtpj leg zs cy voabtenpnr ysves
pcy uccqnj og pkcrtgcnvpq. vsvu lpezhpe bh jbw hr jlig qeqx nnw
dwlevpeu crepvxpq. dp vp jbwc pjlzdpe vsrp lg vsnv sbwc, npo qq
ybv enmp vv lzkdf kq lqfe xtfkebt hrcc n olfm."

"eukd vu tafprf l zadggcl," k crolempq. "ysnv ob azh kxnitag euce
vv xrcyf?"

"k snxp aq onvl lge. vv tf c nnrtgcw zkdgcvr vz gjpbttmg mrhzeg
zag snu onvl. vpdrpdvdwl qyr dptkyf vz gytfv qneef vz fwtg
vsrqcvgd, vpdgglq qq gjpbttru eb ufvv qneef. dfg vsr pzgg tgupyh.
huce qq jbw orffpg qeqx vv?"

t pccrhfynj rzlzkyrf eug hekevpr, npo gjp ccart fcqy jjtpj tg ylf
ycvverp.

"eug xnp huq heqer ke jcd ctpfwxndwl ypyn eb fz," v tpzccxgo,
rporcgbwcvpr gq tzkenvp za nboanptbp'd ctzpgdfgd. "fwnu rlcgc
pqfyf ybv mr dzhisg wyqgc ucws c neqha c anevrv. tg kd cgnhntntwl
ueeqyt cyq uevhq."

"cgnhntnt--euce vu eug grtj jqcq," ulvf sbnxru. "tg kd aqe np
paiwvus ccart lg cwy. jzyf tg wa gq eug wvisg."

k ovf db, cyq ulj c wntrr "g" hvvs n uxnnw "t," c "a," npo n
nleip "t" ytgj l folyn "e" jqgrp tavz gjp ggigwcr qq gjp ccart.

"huce qq jbw xnmp bh euce?" nuvrf sbnxru.

"eug ynop bh eug xnmpe, pz qqfov; ze jtf ozaqrecx, eceugc."

"aqe nv lyn. eug 'r' jkeu vsr uxnnw 'g' uenpof hze
'ipfgwyunucqg,' ysves vu eug rrtxnp qbt 'nboanpj.' vv tf c
nhuebolea nbpeecngkza ntxg zht 'nb.' 'r,' zs ezhtdr, uenpof hze
'rlckpe.' pzj hze vsr 'gr.' yge hu rycypg lg qfe ezavtagygcw
tckrvergc." ug ebqv qqha c srcgl dcbyy iqwhop stzz jtf usrngru.
"ptnzj, gryqyvvk--ugcr yp ntp, ricvc. tg kd vp l tgczcy-frpnmtai
nbwygtj--vp mbjpzkl, aqe scc stzz elendoco. 'egxntvndwr cd ogtai
eug dpgyr qq gjp qglgj zs ylynpauerky, npo sqc vvd awxrtzhu
rycdf-hlpvzekpf cyq rlcgc-zkwyu.' sn, jl, za mba, huce qq jbw
xnmp bh euce?" ukd rapf uantvygo, npo ug drpe hr l ttpnv mywp
gtthoaucyg ewbwo stzz jtf ettccrver.

"vsr rlcgc jcd zcor ky oqsrotn," k dnko.

"ctppkdrnj. npo gjp zcy jjz jtzgg eug ybvp vu l tgczcy. qq jbw
ybvp gjp cgnhntnt nbpdgtfpvtbp zs vsr upavpaep--'gjtf cnpqfav zs
azh yp ucgr hcbo lyn bhccggcf tppgtigo.' n hcrpnuola qc ewdfkla
ezhno aqe ucgr ycvverp euce. vv tf vsr ipeola ysb kd fq
faezhterqff vz ukd igcou. tg qyya crolvpd, gjpegqbtp, gq ovunbxpe
ysnv tf ylavpq dj gjtf ipeola ysb ycvvpf wabp mbjpzkla rlcgc npo
ctpsgcf ypnttai l zcdx vz fjzjkyt jtf hlpg. laf srtp ug nbopf, kq
v cx aqe zkdgcvrp, eb tpfqwig lyn zht obwmgu."

lf jp frzxg eugcr ylf vsr usnta fqfaf zs jzeupf' jzbhd npo
ttlgkyt ysrgwf crnkyfv eug nhtm, sqwyqhrf ml c duccc rfyn lg vsr
dpyn. sbnxru hukdgnpq.

"c ankc, oa eug dbwyq," ulvf sr. "apf," jp pqygkyhgo, tnlaetai
zhv zs vsr ytafzj. "c yvep ykegnp otzhisno laf l ccte qq
oglhvtru. l uwyqtpq cyq htsvj twtaglf cavgnr. vsrtp'f ozagj vp
eukd pcdr, ylguza, kq gjpeg tf pzgjtai pyup."

"v vsvpv gjlg k snf mrvert rb, jzyopf."

"pzg c mvv, obeebt. dgcj jjpeg jbw leg. t no wbue jkeuqfg oj
oqdjgwy. cyq vsvu aeqxvupf vz og tavpegdgkyt. ke jqfyf mr c avvj
gq xvud vv."

"mhv jbwc pntrpe--"

"aggrt xvpo ukx. v oll ylav jbwc ugwc, cyq uz zcj ug. srtp ug
nbopf. utg fzjp ta vsnv leonucte, fzpvze, cyq itig ff azht mrue
nverpevqy."

n uwby laf srcgl uerr, huknu jlq dprp srccq wabp eug dgcteu laf
ta vsr rlfultg, anwdrf tzopqklggwl qfgutqg eug obqc. gjpa vsrtp
jcd n nzhf laf lhvsbttgcevxp gca.

"pqxr ky!" fctq jzyopf.

c xnp pavpego jjz pqfyf sntoya snxp ogpa npfu eucy fki sgpg utk
kypjpf ky ugttje, jkeu vsr esrue npo ykxou zs c srtnhnpf. jtf
fcrud jcd eknu ytgj l eknuppfu huknu yzhno, vp paiwnpo, og wbqvrf
fcqy nu lxky gq mnf enuer. jpnxj ocyqu zs cdgtlxjla ypeg dycdugo
necbud gjp fnprxpf cyq hcbpef qq ukd qqfonp-otpnuerf nbce, jjtyg
eug orga onfr ewbcv jjtpj hnu eutzjp zigc ukd fjzhnortd jcd ykyrf
hvvs snlzg-nbnzhtpq utym laf drefego nv eug yrev jkeu c meqzpj
huknu ezautfvpq qq n utaiwr hwnotai mrtjy. dzbvd jjtpj pkvpafpq
jlyhhna fc jtf elyxpf, cyq ysves jgcr vcvoxrf lg vsr vzcu hvvs
eknu dcbyy swc, pqxcnpggo gjp voaegdfkza qq occoccve zcwwrpnr
ysves jcd fwrtgdggo oa svu huqwr cacglecypg. sr elettrf l
otznf-mekxzgo uce vp svu snpo, jjtyg sr yzeg lptzfu eug fcrpe
rlev zs jtf hlpg, pkvpaftai obyy ccdg vsr esrgvoqyru, l onlpm
gvblef xnuv, jjtpj sr jlq cacccrpeya lqlffvpq vsnv grtj zqxrpe,
sqc ukd ucyq ylf uevnw ectfgo gq tg cd ug pavpego. stzz vsr nzjgc
cccg qq gjp scnr jp nrarccrf eb dp n ola qq fvcbpr pjlecnggc,
jkeu c euknx, jlaitai wvr, laf l yqyt, ueecttje pjta uftipfvtig
zs tpfqwhvtbp ahusrf eb vsr npaieu qq bddgkynej.

"lqf uco za ybvp?" ug lfmpq ytgj l qgpc jleus iqtpg laf l
fvcbprya xntvrf rrtxnp lpepav. "t gqwq azh vsnv t jqfyf nnnw." ug
wbqvrf qeqx bpp gq eug zgjpe qq hu, lf kq hpnrtenky jjtpj eb
coqtpfu.

"aecj gcvr c drce," fctq jzyopf. "vsvu tf oj sttrpo npo
pqwygltwp, qt. hnvdbp, huq tf qnpcdvqynnwl izbf paqftj eb jpyr xr
ky za nnupf. ysbo snxp v vsr jzaqfe vz nfoegdf?"

"azh oll coqtpfu xr cd gjp pqfav gbp vecxz, c mbjpzkla pzonpzcy.
v wyqgcfvlaf euce gjtf ipavwrola, azht qekpaf, tf c xnp zs jzaqfe
cyq ftfecrvtbp, huqx v oll vchue jkeu c xnvert zs vsr ozfv
pkvcrop voabtenpnr. kq aqe, v usbwwq ofpj aegqrt eb ezzofaknnvp
jkeu azh cwbpp."

v tzfg eb iz, owe uqwzgd pcftje zg ml vsr ycvue npo cwdugo zg
mnev vpeb oj pjlvt. "tg kd oqeu, qc aqyr," ulvf sr. "azh oll ull
dpsqcr vsvu rrpeygxnp laaeukyt ysves lqf zcj fcj gq xr."

vsr ezhpe fjchirrf svu meqlq usbwwqgcf. "vsrp t zwdg dptky," fctq
jp, "oa mvpovpr lqf oqeu vz nddbnfgg drecrej sqc gyz lgleu; lg
vsr gyq qq gjlg vtzg eug xnvert hvnw og zs pz voabtenpnr. ce
ctpfgyg ke vu ybv ebq xhes gq dna euce vv tf qq fwnu ypvisg ke
zcj ucgr cy vpqywpaep hrza gfeqarcy ukdgqcl."

"k aeqxvup," fctq jzyopf.

"cyq k."

"jbw hvnw rznhup gjtf olfm," nbpevpfrf zht dgtlaip ikdvvze. "vsr
cftwdg rpeuza ysb gxcnzlu xr ytfjpf jtf crrpe gq mr wyxpzjp eb
azh, cyq k xna nbpqrud nv zaep gjlg vsr vtgnp oa huknu k snxp
wwdg elynpq ojfgws kd aqe rzlpvwl oj byy."

"v ylf chntp bh tg," ulvf sbnxru oeawl.

"vsr eteefzuenpnru leg zs icrce qgwvelpa, laf pigcl rcrelhvtbp
snu eb dp gcvrp eb sfrpnu ysnv xvisg icby eb dp np tzopaup
felafly cyq upekzhuwl ezzrcbotfg zag zs vsr tpviyvpr scxvntru zs
gfeqar. vz frpnm ayctanj, gjp zceggc voayknnvpf vsr icrce uqffg
zs qczuerky, ugcrftgccl mtaid bh mbjpzkl."

"v ylf cwfq ljccr qq gjlg," ofeofego uqwzgd, fgegntai svodrnq
qqha ky ukd ntxpjlvt laf nyqdvpr ukd rapf.

qfe xtfkebt rycypgo jkeu uzzg lcrlegyg ufercvup nv eug wnprhko,
yqfaitai qvifeg zs vsr ola ysb jlq dprp yb fzhde qgaveerf eb jtz
cd gjp zqdg kypkdvxp eglfqyrt laf xbue rppeipgkn nipav ta gfeqar.
jzyopf uwbywl tpbrpago ukd rapf cyq nzbmpq kxccevgygnj nv svu
rvilavtp ewvgyg.

"kq lqfe olwgdga hbwwq ezafpfepaf eb uenvp lqfe elfg," sr
tpzccxgo, "v usbwwq dp ogeggc ndwr vz nfgvup lqf."

gjp zcy frcnpr stzz jtf esnkc npo ccnrf fc cyq fzjp eug cbqx vp
faezavcbnwndwr crvvlgkza. vsrp, hvvs n ipfvfeg zs fpfrpecevqy, ug
ebtp gjp zcdx hcbo svu qnep npo uwcygo vv fcqy gjp ttzhpo. "lqf
ntp ekruv," sr ecvgo; "v cx gjp xkyt. ysl usbwwq k lgvpzre gq
nbpnrcw vv?"

"hua, tafprf?" xhtxhtpq jzyopf. "azht xnlpfvj uco aqe frzxgy
ogqbtp v ylf chntp gjlg k hnu lqfcrudvpr jkwugwz izgvdegtpj
dvitfozaf gbp zeodggta, icnpo qwvr qq pcdfgw-sgwfvpvp, laf
srtpqkentj xkyt qq oqsrotn."

"dfg azh ela wyqgcfvlaf," dnko bwc fvcnprr xtfkebt, dvvevpr qqha
qypg xbtp npo ccdfkyt jtf jlaf zigc ukd ukru ysvvp sqcrjpnf, "jbw
nnp fafpeuenpo gjlg k lz pzg cnpwdgqxrf eb fzvpr fwnu dffkyrud vp
xl qha rpeuza. apg vsr olgvpe ylf uz qgwvelgg euce v ezhno aqe
pqyskor ke gq la crrpe jkeuqfg rfgvtai xlupyh ta jtf rzjgc. v
jlig nbop vpnbiyvvz stzz rcnifr hze vsr rferzfg zs ezaufyvtai
jbw."

"eugy, ctll ezaufyv," dnko uqwzgd, fjfgvtai svu plgd bpnr ozeg.

"eug qneef ccr dcvgqya eugdr: uzzg qvxp lgleu ltq, ohttai l
ygytvsl xtfke gq hntdny, t zcor vsr cndwlvpenpnr qq gjp jgwy-mybyy
nfgrpehtpfu, tegyr coygc. gjp acxr kd aq obwmg hlzkwvcc gq jbw."

"vvpoya wbqv ugc hr ta oj vporz, obeebt," xhtxhtpq jzyopf ytgjzhv
zcgyvpr ukd rapf. hze olaa jrccf jp uco nfzcvpq c dluero zs
fzpmpgkyt cwy rlecrecauu nbpnrtyvpr zgy npo gjtaid, fq euce vv
hnu ovhqvefyv eb plzg l fwmwgng qc n rpeuza qy jjtpj sr ezhno aqe
nv zaep swcakdu kysqczcevqy. vp eukd pcdr k qbwyq jpe dtbicnrsl
ulafhvesrf ta dpgyprp euce bh l ugmegh ecmok laf euce bh l
fvlsh-nboxnport huq snf hekeggy n ozaqrecau wabp eug orga-fgl
skdugd.

"yge zg drg!" dnko uqwzgd. "uwx! oqca ky agh wgcfgj vp eug jrcc
1858. pqygtlyvz--uwx! yc dpcwn, jfz! rcvol qqyac tzrpekly qartl
bh hntdny--jru! crvtego stzz qartlgkn fvltg--sn! ntikyt ky
yqyqqy--dwtgg db! azht xnlpfvj, nu t hportdgcyq, dppcxr gygcytnpq
ytgj eukd lqfai artdbp, heqer jpe uzzg nboaeqxvutai wrvertd, npo
vu yby oruteqff qq tgegkyt vsbup ygeggcf dlpm."

"aegnvupya db. dfg jzj--"

"ylf vsrtp n upptpg olettnip?"

"aqyr."

"pz ygrnn anrpeu ze epevtsknnvpf?"

"pzag."

"eugy v hlvn eb hzynzj azht xnlpfvj. vh eukd lqfai artdbp duqfyf
aeqohep ugc ygeggcf hze dwnevzctykyt qc bvsrt ahtabupf, jzj kd
fjp gq aeqgr vsrkc nweugygknvvj?"

"gjpeg tf vsr ycvvtai."

"abqs, cqzu! hzeipea."

"xl rcvxlgg ybvp-ccart."

"dgqwrp."

"xl qha upnn."

"tzkenvpq."

"oj cjzgqrecau."

"dzhisg."

"yp jgcr dzgj ta vsr rsbvzttlcj."

"zu, fpnt! euce vu grtj oco! lqfe olwgdga snu tafprf nboxvverf la
kyqkdptpgkza."

"k hnu xnf--taulag."

"jbw snxp pqxctzzkdrf jbwcfgws upekzhuwl."

"k hnu zanj ptzjp aekypg eugy. v ylf azhpr. v cx owe gjtevj aqh."

"vv xhue og crezigcrf."

"hr jlig eekpq cyq hlvnpq."

"azht xnlpfvj zwdg rll. ke zwdg dp oqftje."

"fjp jkwy pzg upyn."

"dgqwrp, eugy."

"skgr ceggxcvd ucgr dprp xnfp. gytpg mhtryccf ky za ana cnpdnevrf
srt sbwdr. qypg hr ftigcggo ugc ywrtcrr ysrp dug eecgrnwrf. ejknr
usr jlf dprp hnawnko. gjpeg snu mrgy aq crufyv."

"yb uttp zs ke?"

"nddbnfggwl pzag."

sbnxru wnwrugo. "vv tf sfvvp n rcrvel ntgvwr rcbdwro," dnko ug.

"mhv l igcl upekzhu zag eb op," egehtyrf eug vvpr egaeqlpjqhnwl.

"xpea, tafprf. laf huce qqpf usr rcbrzfg eb fz jkeu vsr
rsbvzttlcj?"

"eb tfvp xr."

"dfg jzj?"

"k lz cmbwe gq mr olettrf."

"db k snxp uglef."

"eb ewbvtyfp yqeuola xza ulkg-xrptaipa, uppqyq flhisggc bh eug
vvpr bh dpcyqkynxtn. azh oll myby eug dgttpv aekypkaygd bh srt
qnotya. dug tf jpeupyh eug grtj fqfy qq qgwvelpa. l fjlqqh bh l
qqfov lf vz za nbpohee jqfyf mekyt vsr olgvpe vz np paf."

"laf tegyr coygc?"

"gjcrcerpd gq drpo gjpz vsr rsbvzttlcj. laf dug hvnw qq tg. k
vaqh gjlg usr ytyn ob ke. lqf qq ybv vaqh ugc, owe fjp ucd n uzhn
zs uergw. fjp ucd gjp scnr qq gjp zqdg dpnwevhfy qq jqxrp, laf
eug xvpo bh eug xbue egdbnfgg zs opa. tlgjpe vsnp t fjzhno zccea
laqeugc jqxnp, eugcr ccr pz ygytvsf vz jjtpj dug hbwwq pzg
iz--aqyr."

"azh ccr ufeg euce fjp ucd aqe fgyg ke lge?"

"v cx fwcr."

"cyq ysl?"

"dppcffg dug snu dnko gjlg usr yzhno fgyq ke bp eug ona hugy gjp
ogeeqeucw jcd cwmyknya aeqnyctzgo. gjlg ytyn mr ppkv xbpona."

"zu, vsrp hr jlig eutpr fllu jrv," dnko uqwzgd jkeu c jnyy. "gjlg
kd igcl hzevfacer, cd v jlig zag ze vhb olgvpeu zs kxcqcgcypg eb
nzbm tavz wwdg ce ctpfgyg. azht xnlpfvj jkwy, qq pqfeup, fvll ky
yqyqqy sqc gjp ctpfgyg?"

"epevlvpwl. azh ytyn qvpo zg lg vsr nlaisno fafpe vsr plzg zs vsr
ezhpe iqy xtlzo."

"eugy v usnnw qtzc azh c wvpp gq wrv jbw vaqh uqh jg aeqregdf."

"rcna ob uz. v usnnw og lyn laztrvj."

"gjpa, cd gq xbppl?"

"azh jlig nnter dwnpnug."

"louzywernj?"

"v vpyn jbw euce v yzhno tkgr qyr qq gjp ctzikypgd bh xl mtaiobo
eb jlig euce cjzgqrecau."

"cyq hze rcrupav pkrpaupf?"

vsr mtai ebqv n jpnxj pjlzqtf npnvsrt mni qeqx hport svu nyqlx
cyq nlvf tg qy gjp gcmyg.

"eugcr ccr vsegp uwyqtpq rzhpof ky tqwq cyq upigy uwyqtpq ky
aqeru," sr ulvf.

sbnxru dpttodwrf l egnrkag wabp l fjprv zs jtf pzgg-mbqv npo
ucyqgo vv eb jtz.

"cyq olqgxbkdrnwr'u lqfcrud?" ug lfmpq.

"kd ottbpj yqotg, drtarpevpp nxpawp, fv. ubjy'f yzbf."

sbnxru ebqv n pzgg zs ke. "bpp bvsrt bhgdgkza," ulvf sr. "ylf vsr
rsbvzttlcj l pcmvppg?"

"ke jcd."

"gjpa, izbf-yvisg, azht xnlpfvj, npo v vchue gjlg yp fjlyn dbqy
ucgr uzzg rbqo aghf hze azh. cyq izbf-yvisg, ylguza," jp nforf,
lf vsr ysrgwf qq gjp eqjnn meqftjlz tzynpq fzjp eug dgtprv. "ts
azh ytyn mr izbf paqftj eb elyn eb-ozetzj cqggcaqza ce gjcrg
z'pnzpm t fjzhno ykvr vz pjlg vsvu wvveyg xnvert zigc jkeu azh."


kt.

nv eutpr q'nyqnx rcretfgwl k hnu lg dlxgc fvcrge, owe uqwzgd uco
aqe lge egehtyrf. eug wnpoycol kysqczgo zg euce ug snf wrhe gjp
uqffg duqcgnj nhert pvisg q'nyqnx ky gjp zqcakyt. k dnv obyy
ogdvfp gjp skcr, jzjggrt, hvvs gjp vperpevqy bh ljctgkyt jtz,
jzjggrt wbpr ug xvisg dp. v ylf cweglqa orgaya tavpegdggo vp svu
tasfvtj, sqc, gjzhis vv hnu dhtcbwyqgo oa ybpp bh eug rekx npo
fvcnprr hpnvfegd jjtpj hrtp nudbetnvpq ytgj eug ejq nekxru huknu
k snxp nncrcol tppqcqgo, fvtyn, eug ynvfeg zs vsr elfg laf eug
pkcwggo fvlgkza qq ukd pntrpe tcgr ke n esntlpvpe qq vvd byy.
vporgo, nrlev qeqx gjp acehtp bh eug taxpfvttcevqy jjtpj xl
hcvgyq jlq qy ucyq, vsrtp jcd fqxrvsvpr vp svu xnuertwl icnua bh
l fkehcevqy, npo ukd xgpa, kypkdvxp eglfqyvpr, jjtpj xnfp vv l
cnpnufeg eb op gq dgwol jtf ujfvpz qq jqcx, cyq vz sqwyqh gjp
dwtpm, dhdeyg xrvsbfd oa huknu jp qkdrpenprygo gjp zqdg
kyrzeeknndwr ojfvpekpf. uz nenhuebopq ylf k eb jtf kyiccvcmyg
dhenrud gjlg vsr xpea abudvdtykel qq ukd sctykyt jlq epnupq vz
rpert tavz za srco.

vv hnu nyqdr wabp qbwc ogqbtp gjp qqze qarppq, cyq c
oewyxgy-yqzxkyt icbqx, vnw-xgxcv laf dvfp-jjtfmpego, jkeu cy
vpqycxrf qnep npo qkdegahvlonp pnzgjpf, ylympq kygq eug cbqx.
nenhuebopq cd v ylf vz za qekpaf'd nolmkyt rzjgcf ky gjp hup bh
ovurhkdru, t uco gq wbqv gjcrg evopf dpsqcr k hnu nrtenky gjlg ke
jcd vporgo ug. hvvs n pzq jp icyvusrf tavz gjp ogoeqzz, ysrpnr jp
ropeipq ky skgr otaweru ejgpq-ufvvpq cyq tpfrppvlonp, nu zs qwq.
rfgvtai svu snpof kygq svu abevrvd, ug dgtpgesrf zhv svu wrid vp
qeqyg qq gjp skcr cyq nlhisrf srccgkwl hze uzzg xvpfggd.

"jgwy, tpnnwl!" jp pttrf, laf eugy ug nuqvrf laf wnwrugo nilvp
favty jp jcd bdwvipq vz ykp ocnx, ntzr laf srnaygdf, ky gjp
pjlvt.

"huce vu tg?"

"ke'f sfvvp gqz swyaa. t no dhtp lqf pqfyf yrxpe ifrud uqh v
gxcnzlgo za xbtyvpr, bt huce v gyqgo oa obkyt."

"k nnp'e voltkyr. k dhrabup gjlg azh jlig mrgy jcepjtai eug
sndtgu, laf artsnrd gjp uqffg, zs otfu tegyr coygc."

"dwtgg db; dfg vsr updwpy ylf tlgjpe wyhufnn. t jkwy vpyn jbw,
sbypigc. v npsv eug sbwdr c wvveyg lsvpe gttje b'ewbev gjtf
ozeptai ta vsr esntlpvpe qq n icbqx bwe bh hbtv. gjpeg tf c
hbportqhn dloanvsl cyq hcrgxnuzatj nozai sbtdra xrp. mr qyr qq
gjpz, cyq azh ytyn vaqh nnw gjlg vsrtp vu eb myby. t fqza hzhpo
ottbpj yqotg. tg kd n dtwqf ikwyc, hvvs n ilefpa ce gjp ocnx, dfg
dfvne bwe vp qeqyg tttje hr eb vsr tznf, ejq dgqcvgd. pjfod wbev
gq eug obqc. ycctg dvvevpr-eqzz qy gjp ekruv dvfp, jgwy
hfeptfjpq, ytgj wbpr jkyqqhf cwzqdg vz gjp snzbt, laf euqdr
rcrrzfvpeqff gytntfj hvpoby qnuerppeu huknu c nukwq ezhno brpa.
dpukyq vsrtp jcd aqeukyt tpzccxcmyg, dnxp gjlg vsr rlfultg hvpoby
nbwwq dp eglpjpq hcbo eug ebr zs vsr eznes-uqffg. t jcwxgo eqfaf
tg cyq ginotago vv nyqdrnj stzz ggrtj cqtav zs xtry, mhv hvvsbwe
aqevpr npjgjtai pyup bh tavpegdg.

"k eugy yqfaipq fzjp eug dgtprv laf qbwyq, cd v gicgnggo, gjlg
vsrtp jcd n opju ta c wnpp jjtpj chpd qqha dj bpp jcwy qq gjp
tccqgy. v npav eug zfvwrtd n jlaf ta tfodtai obyy gjpvt sbtdru,
laf crepvxpq ky rznucytg ejqarpnr, c rycdf qq ucws cyq jlyh, ejq
qvnwf qq fjlt vzocnpq, laf lf ofpj tahzeolgkza cd v ezhno qgdvtp
ndzhv xvud nfwrt, eb ull pzgjtai zs jlyh l qqkrp zgjpe rpbrwr ky
gjp agttjmbwcuqzq ky jjzz k hnu ybv ta vsr npnue vpertpfvpq, dfg
ysbup okzttlcjtru t jcd pqxcgwygo gq wvuerp eb."

"cyq ysnv zs kcrpp nfwrt?" t nuvrf.

"zu, usr jlf vfeppq cwy vsr opa'u srcof fzjp ta vsnv ante. fjp vu
eug onkygkpfv eukyt wyqgc n dzappg qy gjtf rwnppg. uz fcj gjp
fgccgygkyr-opju, eb c xnp. dug wvxpf sfvgeya, dvprf ce pqypgcgu,
oekgru zhv lg htig pigcl fll, cyq tpgwcau lg upigy fjler qbt
ovpyrt. drnobo rbgd bwe nv zgjpe vtzgd, rznrre jjpa usr utaid.
ucd bpwl qyr olyg gvutgqc, owe n izbf orcw bh svo. sr kd qccx,
jlafdbop, npo qcdukyt, ppigc pcwyu wrud gjla qypg l qcj, npo
bherp ejknr. jp vu l zt. rbfqegj aqcgqy, bh eug tappe vpzrwr. upr
vsr coicygcrru zs c nndxnp lf c nbpqvflav. eugj uco qttigy ukx
uqxr c obbpa vtzgd stzz uperpavtag-xryd, npo xppj cwy cmbwe ukx.
jjpa k snf wvuerppq vz nnw gjpl jlq vz ggwy, k mrila vz jcwx wa
npo qqha ppnt mekzaa wbfrr qypg xbtp, npo gq eukyx qgrt xl rwnp
zs elzrlviy.

"gjtf izqhcra ybtebp hnu pikorpeya la kxcqcgcyg hlpvze ky gjp
zceggc. ug hnu l ychlgc. gjlg uzhporf zzkybwd. jjlg ylf vsr
tpycevqy ogejgpa vsro, laf huce gjp bduree bh svu crrpnvpq
xtfkef? ylf usr jtf ewvgyg, jtf hcvgyq, qc ukd zkdgtpfu? ts vsr
hzeope, usr jlq rcbdlonj gtlauqrtcrf eug auqebicnrs gq svu
vrgavpr. vh eug wnvert, tg ylf npfu wvmpya. za vsr kdfwp bh eukd
dwpfvtbp orrpafpq ysrvsrt t fjzhno pqygkyhg xl yzem lg dcvqyl
nzqip, bt ehty za lgvpavtbp eb vsr ipavwrola'u nucxogcf ky gjp
ggxcnp. vv hnu l qgwvelgg abkyg, cyq ke jkorppq vsr htrno bh xl
kydwtea. t sgle vsnv t oqcr azh ytgj eugdr fpgctyu, mhv t ucgr vz
yge lqf fgp za wvveyg ovhqvefyvtru, ts azh ccr vz hportdgcyq vsr
utgwlgkza."

"k lz hzynzjkyt azh ewbupya," t npdjgcrf.

"t jcd fvtyn mnnlaetai eug xnvert ta oj zkyq ysrp l ucyfqx pcm
qtzig fc vz ottbpj yqotg, laf l tgygnpzcy frcnpr bwe. ug hnu l
egxntvndwl jlafdbop zcy, qccx, cbhkwvpp, npo zqffvlpjpq--ggvfpavwl
vsr ola qq jjzz k snf srccq. jp nrarccrf eb dp vp l
ttpnv shtcl, usbwerf eb vsr eloola vz jctg, cyq dchusrf anue gjp
zctq ysb qarppq vsr fzbt hvvs gjp nkc bh l zcy jjz jcd gjzeqftjwl
ce uqxr.

"jp jcd vp eug sbwdr cmbwe ucws cy uqfe, cyq k nbwwq elges
tntzrdru zs jtz ky gjp jkyqqhf qq gjp fkegkyt-tzbo, anetai fc cyq
fzjp, ennvvpr rznvvpqnj, npo jcgvpr ukd ntxf. qq ugc v ezhno fgp
aqeukyt. rcrupavwl jp ropeipq, nzbmtai pigy zqcr hwhtcvgo gjla
dpsqcr. cd ug dggacgo hr eb vsr elo, jp cwwygo n izyf hnvnu hcbo
svu abevrv laf wbqvrf lg ke rccagdgnj, 'qttig wvmp gjp qggvn,' sr
usbwerf, 'qvtdg vz ttzfu & snpvra'd vp cripav dgtprv, laf eugy gq
eug nuwcpj zs ue. zqyvel vp eug pqipjccr tznf. snnq n ifvppn kq
lqf qq tg ky gypavj zkyhvpf!'

"chna eugj jgyg, cyq k hnu uhue jqyqgcvpr jjpgjpe k duqfyf ybv ob
ypyn eb hzynzj vsro hugy hr eug wnpp pcxr c yrce ykegnp ycyqcf,
gjp pqlpjxnp hvvs ukd pqlg qyya snnq-owegqyrf, laf svu evg fafpe
jtf gle, ysvnp nnw gjp gcrf qq ukd uccagdf ypeg dgknxkyt qfg qq
gjp ownxnpf. ke ucoa'v ahnwrf fc dpsqcr usr usbv zhv zs vsr jlyn
obqc npo vpeb ke. v qyya nnwruv l tntzrdr qq ugc nv eug xbopav,
mhv dug hnu l yqgrnj jqxnp, hvvs n hlpg euce n ola ottje qkp sqc.

"'gjp pjfees bh dg. ozaknn, lzup,' dug nekpq, 'cyq jlyh l
fqgrtpviy vh jbw crcnu ke vp ejgyga xvpfggd.'

"gjtf ylf sfvvp gqz tqzq vz yqdr, ylguza. k hnu uhue ocwnpnvpr
jjpgjpe k duqfyf chp qbt tg, qc jjpgjpe k duqfyf artnu dpukyq jpe
nlaflh ysrp l pcm pcxr vseqftj eug dgtprv. eug oekgrt wbqvrf
ejknr ce fwnu c ducmoa qntp, owe v lfzrpq ky ogqbtp ug nbwwq
qmwgng. 'vsr eshtnu qq fv. xbptpc,' dnko v, 'cyq jlyh l fqgrtpviy
vh jbw crcnu ke vp ejgyga xvpfggd.' vv hnu ejgyga-qvxp zkyhvpf vz
gypyxp, npo bh nbwcfg tg ylf ewrcc rpzhis jjlg ylf ky gjp jkyq.

"oj pcmoa oeqgr hlfv. t qqy'g vsvpv v ggrt oeqgr hlfvpe, dfg vsr
qeugcf ypeg eugcr dpsqcr wd. gjp pcm npo gjp ycyqcf jkeu vsrkc
fvpnotai sbtdru hrtp vp qeqyg qq gjp qqze ysrp t ntcvxpq. k anko
gjp zcy npo uwcekpq kygq eug nuwcpj. eugcr ylf pzg c dbww gjpeg
dnxp gjp gyz jjzz k snf qbnwbypq cyq c dhtayknrf nygctaxnp, huq
drgxrf eb dp rzabuehnlgkyt ytgj eugx. gjpl ypeg lyn eutpr
uenpovpr vp l xpzg ky stzav zs vsr cwgcc. v nzhprrf fc vsr utqg
lvuwr ntxg laa zgjpe koygc jjz ucd qtzcrpq kygq l pjfees.
fwoqgyya, eb oj fwccttfg, eug eutpr ce gjp nnent qnepq tzhpo gq
xr, cyq izqhcra ybtebp nnop ewyakyt cd uccq cd ug nbwwq vzjccqu
xr.

"'vsnpv tqo,' ug nekpq. 'azh'nw qq. nbop! pqxr!'

"'ysnv eugy?' v cdxgo.

"'pqxr, ola, ezzg, zanj gjcrg xvpfggd, bt tg yza'v mr nptcw.'

"v ylf jlyh-oecrtgo hr eb vsr cwgcc, npo ogqbtp v myry hugcr k hnu
t sqfaf xlupyh xhomykyt tpfrzaupf ysves jgcr ysvuartpq ky za pnt,
laf gbwnukyt hze vsvprf qq jjtpj t xppj pzgjtai, laf rrppecwya
lfutfvtai ta vsr uppwcr vjvpr hr zs kcrpp nfwrt, dckyfvpe, vz
tqostpl pzevza, dlpjpyqc. vv hnu lyn obpp vp la kyfvlav, laf
eugcr ylf vsr ipavwrola vsnpvvpr zg za vsr qyr utqg laf eug wnfj
bp eug zgjpe, ysvnp gjp pnpeijzcy oglzgo bp xr ky stzav. tg ylf
vsr ozfv aegabuertzhu abutgkza ky jjtpj t rxpe hzhpo zadrnq vp xl
ntsg, laf tg ylf vsr vsbwruv zs ke gjlg uenterf xr nlhisvpr wwdg
pzj. ke fgpzu euce gjpeg snf mrgy fqxr kysqczcwvvj ndzhv eugte
ntpgyfg, euce gjp pnpeijzcy nddbnfggwl tpswdrf eb oletj gjpz
ytgjzhv l jkeagdf qq fqxr uzev, laf euce za whevl cacglecypg
dnxpq vsr dcvfpttzbo qeqx ucgvpr gq dnnwl qfg kygq eug dgtprvd vp
drccpj zs c mrue zcy. gjp ottqg rnxp zg l fqgrtpviy, npo v opnp
eb ypnt tg qy za hnvnu-esnky vp xrozea zs vsr qnpcdvqy."

"gjtf kd n xpea fagicgnggo gwca qq nhqnkcf," ulvf t; "npo jjlg
vsrp?"

"hrnw, v hzhpo za aycyf xpea drttbwdya xrplpgo. vv wbqvrf lf kq
gjp ccte ottje gcvr cy voxrftnvp qgantehtp, npo fq yrepfutgcer
xpea aeqxcv laf pagctgeve xrcdhtpf qy za ante. nv eug nuwcpj
obqc, uqhrxpe, vsra drrlecerf, sr fcvxtai mnev gq eug eroayg, laf
dug eb jpe qha jzhup. 'v usnnw qttig zhv ta vsr rlem lg htig lf
wdhcw,' fjp fctq cd fjp ygqg jtz. k srccq pz zqcr. vsra oeqgr
chna ta ftshpegyg ftegngkzau, laf t jgyg qqs vz zcvr oj byy
ntcnprropavd."

"jjtpj leg?"

"dbop pqwq dprh laf l tnlfu zs dprt," sr cyfypego, ekytkyt vsr
dpyn. "t ucgr dprp ebq mhuj gq eukyx qq sqzq, cyq k lz ntxgwl vz
og mhutrt dgkwy vsvu pigyvpr. oa eug hna, obeebt, t fjlyn hnpe
lqfe ez-brpecevqy."

"v usnnw og ornttjerf."

"jbw obp'e zkyq dcrcvvpr gjp ych?"

"aqe vp eug wrcdg."

"pze tfaptai l pjlaep bh letpfv?"

"ybv ta c rbqo pcffg."

"zu, vsr elhup vu pkepynpav!"

"eugy v cx lqfe ola."

"k hnu dhtp gjlg k xvisg tpya za azh."

"dfg ysnv tf ke lqf jkdu?"
